---
title: "Thirty Two And Counting"
date: "2013-11-11"
categories: 
  - "football"
coverImage: "/static/posts-img/boots.jpg"
---

It has been a little over a month since my last post and we have been knocked out of two cups been thrashed four nil, seven nil and five nil. On the plus side we finally got our first league win of the season. It was against NFK Hinckley who beat us 4-0 in the first league game of the season. We won 4-1 and towards the end of the game one of their players was moaning about losing to such a shit team, which is exactly what we were saying when they beat us. The ref was called Wendal and so I couldn't stop singing [Arrested Development.](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wyDjRd0Tjss) We deserved to win and Craig scored two goals. He did have one shot earlier in the game that came off his shin and almost went out for a throw in, cue hilarity from both teams. Our keeper made a few good saves and seemed composed most of the time which is a rarity. Anytime the ball goes near him there is a collective intake of breath. He also refuses to claim any balls played into his box and instead waves his hands manically and shouts 'Away! Away!' The ball is usually beyond the defenders reach and the opposing striker has an easy chance on goal. The goalie then berates the defender for not dealing with it, which the defender doesn't appreciate and it usually leads to a slagging match.

I am still yet to score a goal this season but at least I don't have to worry about a silly ginger beard this year.

I read this [article](http://www.theguardian.com/sport/football-cliches/2013/oct/31/talking-language-sunday-league-football) the other day and it was absolutely spot on as to what playing for Park End is like each week.

I turned 32 at the beginning of the month and had friends over to watch the Chargers Redskins game. Enough has already been said about how they were unable to get a touchdown when they had the ball less than a yard out and a win would have really helped our playoff chances. I am hoping we can beat the Dolphins on Sunday and go on a run into December. I will stop speculating as I have already blogged about how much it annoys me.
