---
title: "'A Goal! A Goal! My Beard For A Goal!'"
date: "2013-01-16"
categories: 
  - "football"
coverImage: "beard.jpg"
---

To say that the season is not going very well would be an understatement. Owing to a lack of fitness and confidence I have yet to reach the heady heights of performance I know I can. I used to reach those heights, but can I still? It has been a long time since I have played much football and perhaps my best days are behind me. It is frustrating watching as other players who don't have as much talent score goals and out perform me. It is also a little disconcerting for everyone who knows me, as I said I wouldn't shave until I scored a goal, that was a very long three months ago. A vow taken rather foolishly and looking back on it with a misplaced faith in my ability. My wife although very supportive must secretly hope I score just to end the embarrassment of being seen in public with me.

I have come close to scoring on two or three occasions, all I have to do is close my eyes and I am taken back to the chances. If only I had taken another touch, if only I had a little more conviction. It does not really help replaying these chances in my head and in the meantime my beard just gets longer.

My workmates find it hilarious that I can't score. Every Monday morning as I come into the office I am greeted by their grinning faces when they see I still haven't shaved. They always ask me about the weekend's game just so they can mock my performance (it should be noted that we haven't won a game when I have played. The only win coming when I was on holiday). Needless to say they never let me hear the end of it and when I told them how I had skied a 30 yard effort they sent me a video and couldn't stop laughing. I have to say my effort was not as bad as his, at least mine went out for a goal kick.

Our next game is against a team with double our points so I am not sure how we are going to fare against them. We are third from bottom and only a point above safety, our goal difference of minus twenty nine gives us an advantage, Kibworth's is minus fifty! Even if we do come bottom there is nowhere for us to get relegated to as we are already in the lowest league. It is depressing to think that I am playing in the lowest league in my area and we might come last, definitely not what I had dreamt of as a boy.

Parkend 74 is full of characters who you will be introduced to over the coming weeks. There is Jimmy who smokes a massive bifta before the game, at half time he starts another one and then finishes it after the game. I am not joking when I say he is one of our best players, although you often hear him laughing when someone falls over or cocks up. The rest of the team is made up of loveable rogues who pass around fags in the warm up whilst taking pot shots at goal. Amateurish doesn't do us justice. It is almost as if we have resigned ourselves to losing against teams above us in the table and so we don't really care. To say we lack aggression or passion would be a long way from the truth, but what we lack we make up with laughter and a rather laissez-faire attitude to the game.

Most games follow either one of two patterns, firstly let me tell you about team talks. They are normally hurried affairs as the game is about to kick off and this is what teams do before a match. We are all huddled together rubbing our hands and stamping our feet trying to keep warm. There are the usual inane comments and pisstaking, the cliches and everyone seems to be filled with a false hope of actually playing well and winning. My favourite quote said by Gaz who plays left wing is 'Keep it simple lads, short passes. Once you have passed don't just fucking admire it, move!' If I had a penny for everytime he said that.... Gaz also has this terrible habit of receiving the ball and instead of laying it off short looks up field and plays a ball over the top. It wouldn't be so bad except our forwards are painfully slow and the defenders mop up the ball and then make us run around like headless chickens trying to win it back off them. Games tend to pan out one of two ways. We either start pretty well and hold our own and may even take the lead, before the football gods turn against us and we end up just losing. Honestly some of the goals we have conceded you couldn't make them up. For instance last week, we were 2-0 down and still in the game when the opposition took a shot which our goalie saved. The ball spooned up off him and landed on the crossbar, instead of bouncing back to him, it hit a plastic tag that holds the net on and bounced down to the ground with spin on it and duly span into the goal. 3-0 game over. The other way the game goes is that we concede early and continue to concede throughout the game and end up being hammered. Fortunately most games follow the former pattern otherwise we would have all packed up ages ago. So we do have hope, because we normally compete with most teams for parts of games, we just need the football gods to be with us one of these weeks.

My fitness level has increased a lot over the few months, I am no longer out of breath during the warm up. There is nothing quite as terrifying and comical as thinking that I have 90 minutes ahead of me and the 10 yard warm up sprint has already knackered me out! To say I was barely involved in games is an understatement. I would choose very carefully when to expend energy and when to save it. As I am a cautious fellow I would rarely be seen anywhere near the opposition's penalty box. Except maybe for corners. You now understand why my beard has lasted so long. I am now approaching something resembling match fitness where the prospect of lasting a game no longer terrifies me.

Who knows by Saturday night I may no longer have a beard, did I mention that it is ginger?
