---
title: "Beacon Hill Half"
date: "2016-11-25"
categories: 
  - "outdoors"
tags: 
  - "beacon-hill"
  - "cross-country"
  - "half-marathon"
  - "trump"
coverImage: "burger-e1479832303214.jpg"
---

I don't post for four months and unsurprisingly not all that much has changed. The Chargers continue to find new ways of losing against the odds, Spurs are looking good but are yet to face a real test and the American Presidential election confounded most polls just as Brexit before it, who knows how long the shockwaves of both results will be felt? The President-elect has a lot of learning to do, I mean here is a man cosying up to Russia and yet abhors Iran, does he not realise that the two of them get on bigly or is the last laugh going to be on us?

On a personal note I handed my notice in at work and my biggest concern once I leave at Christmas will be finding the time to write more posts. Caitlyn and I have decided to move to Morocco in April for three months. This is something we've been wanting to do for a long time, after spending a lot of time praying, fasting and speaking to friends about leaving we felt it was the right time to go. I feel noticeably more energised since making the decision and the next five months are going to be full of planning and preparing the next step of our journey as a family. Before that we're spending Christmas with my parents in their home in Cornwall, the first time in five years and then we have a two week holiday in California with Caitlyn's family.

I stopped playing football this year to spend more time with the family which is why I haven't had much material to write about for the last four months. To remedy this and to get my exercise fix I signed up to [the Beacon Hill Half Marathon](http://www.jackrabbitevents.co.uk/beacon-trail-half-marathon) a two lap route around the country park. I used it as a marker for this [race](http://trailrace.com/boney-mountain-trail-run/) which I'm planning to do with Brittany and JJ when I'm in California. The race was on a Sunday morning and I went to [Crafty Burger](https://www.tripadvisor.co.uk/Restaurant_Review-g186334-d7780385-Reviews-Crafty_Burger-Leicester_Leicestershire_England.html) Friday and Saturday night, I avoided having a burger second time round as I didn't fancy carrying a burger baby around the course.

The forecast for the race showed torrential rain but in the morning it was overcast and very cold but there was no rain. Don't get me started on a rant about weather apps. The drive took half an hour and I had the hot air on full whack so by the time I arrived I was properly roasting, I was the penultimate car allowed into the lower car park which was right next to where the race started. The upper car park was a ten minute walk away, which would have been a nightmare to park in as I didn't have anyone with me to look after my stuff. Also being near the start meant once I'd picked up my bib I could just sit in the warmth of my car, most other runners had the same idea and waited in their cars too, the air quality was probably worse than the M25 during rush hour. Although I had to leave the car's warmth and protection because I went for four wazzes before the race and everytime I opened the door I got a blast of frigid air. Five minutes before the race was due to begin I made my way to the start, amongst the usual runners shivering, jogging on the spot and doing pointless last minute stretches was a guy smoking. I wondered if he was an incredibly arrogant runner who liked to show off his superior talents by enjoying a tab before the race or if he was going to cough his lungs up on the first climb. I was at the back of the pack of about three hundred runners and wished I'd got there a little earlier as I would've been sheltered from the biting wind. I couldn't hear the countdown to the start but saw the first runners heading off and it took an age before we started shuffling forward and when we hit the start line people started to run. I deliberately slowed myself down so that I wouldn't start too fast like when I ran the [Leicester Half Marathon](http://thecroggy.com/half-marathon/) last year.

The start was up a gentle slope and even though I wanted to bomb it past people in front of me who were running slower than I liked, I reined in my enthusiasm. One guy started to walk less than half a mile in, I didn't envy the suffering he was about to endure. The path turned sharply to the right and rose steeply as we headed up the beacon. Methodically I passed people in front of me but kept my pace pretty slow, [my first mile took 10.46 minutes.](https://www.strava.com/activities/780686940/overview) As we crested the top of the beacon the path fell sharply and I opened up the legs and zoomed past a number of people but still kept well within myself. The path was covered with fallen leaves and I was surprised no-one slipped. This is when I passed smoking man and he wasn't coughing. Most of mile 3 was a gentle climb back towards the beacon. I kept it steady and didn't let myself go anywhere near the red and stayed with the people around me for the next 5 miles. I passed a marshall at this point who told me 'I looked far too fresh.' I felt fresh and again resisted the urge to bomb on. The next couple of miles were rolling except for one long climb which again I kept my pace very steady and eased off if I felt myself going towards the red. It was also at this point that I felt a little twinge in my left hamstring, I might have imagined it as it didn't bother me for the rest of the race. After that climb just before mile 5 there was over a mile of downhill, again I resisted the urge to bomb on and stayed with the people I was with. Despite the autumn chill it was beautiful to be running along the muddy tracks through trees with fallen leaves covering the ground in a patchwork of green, yellows and browns.

The next part would be considered the technical section of the course if it was a F1 track, there were some tight turns and two short sharp rises. It was at this point of the race I knew I was doing well even though I had to stop to tie my shoelace, which was a struggle with numb fingers. The guy in front of me attacked one of the rises and made a couple of metres on me, I kept my pace steady and soon caught up and passed him, he was breathing heavily and I felt fine. This is when I stopped to tie my shoelace and even though it probably took me ten seconds I soon passed him again. After this technical section we were back at the start line and beginning our second lap. The second time up the beacon I decided to stay within myself and planned to open up the turbo on the descent. All the runners I passed on the climb were panting whereas I still wasn't breathing too deeply. I did the climb in a similar time to the first lap and when I passed a couple of guys near the top who were breathing hard I knew I was ready to do my best [Hawkeye impression.](https://youtu.be/q8ZisDHg6v0?t=49) I accelerated and absolutely bombed it down the otherside, not quite flat out but pretty close to it. I passed many runners, each one a target ahead of me on the trail, once passed I locked my sights on the next. I ran the downhill thirty five seconds faster than the previous lap and headed into the steady climb back up the beacon slightly winded. I got myself into a rhythm and managed to pass a few more runners on the way up. The same marshall at the same point and again he told me 'I looked too fresh.' It spurred me on and I quickened my stride and made my way past runners and felt pretty good coming into the final climb. By keeping a steady pace and I managed to catch the guy I used as a marker at the top and took a gummy bear from a tub a marshall was holding. A small amount of sugar to fool my body into giving me a final boost for the big push on the long downhill stretch to the technical section. I ran pell mell down this section taking risks with my footing, somehow I didn't fall. It reminded me of my childhood in Morocco running full pelt down rocky hillsides. It was incredibly satisfying to feel so good at 12 miles and passing people with ease, I could almost feel their wills being crushed as I hurtled past. This section was a bit of a blur and when I entered into the technical section I wondered if I had gone too fast as both my quads started to cramp slightly. Ignoring it, I pushed on as I had just passed someone and didn't want to be overtaken. The two short rises I took very slowly and I definitely felt like I had done 13 miles by this point, but the run in to the finish was downhill and again I opened the throttle and overtook someone just before the finish line. I had overtaken many people and don't recall anyone passing me. My chip time was 1:49:51 which I was really pleased with as I was aiming for under two hours.

I collected my goody bag and headed to the car, suddenly I felt incredibly cold. My arms were covered in goosebumps and I could bare feel my fingers and I struggled to open the car door. The car was unlocked as I didn't want to carry my keys with me, I took them from their hiding place under the seat. It was a trial turning them in the ignition, after a few attempts I finally got the car started using both hands to turn the key. I should have taken the time to put on my jumper and take out the food and drink from the goody bag, instead I ended up scrabbling around for the food as I drove. By the time I got home I was a little warmer and the hairs on my arms were no longer standing straight up. I took a long warm shower and my thoughts turned to the race, could I have done it quicker if I'd started faster and pushed myself a little more up the hills. In the end I was very happy with the result especially as I hadn't done much training. Next up Boney Mountain Trail.
