---
title: "Goal Goal GOAL!"
date: "2013-09-20"
categories: 
  - "football"
coverImage: "boots.jpg"
---

Going a whole season without scoring was pretty humbling, especially when my beard had grown into something ridiculous. I copped a lot of stick and every chance that went begging added pressure. It felt like I was cursed, never to score, the footballing gods angry with me for my self-assuredness. Pre-season hadn't brought about any change in my fortunes. I had a header cleared off the line and when the ball fell to me on the six yard box I lashed it straight at the defender on the line. It seemed as if this season would be another barren affair, leaving my confidence in tatters and finish with me hanging up my boots. However during a friendly a couple of weeks ago, you can imagine my suprise when the goalie spilled a shot and I was able to toe poke the ball into the open net. I didn't celebrate, I was dumbstruck. Teammates ran up to congratulate me and I stood there like a lemon. I still don't know how the keeper didn't get to the rebound first, they always get there before me. Imagine my suprise later on in the match when I controlled a loose ball in the area and shot.....and scored again. Surely the defender should have blocked my shot instead of it going between his legs and why didn't the keeper dive to save it. Again a look of bewilderment was on my face as my teammates ran up to celebrate with me. Two goals in one game, how was it possible it couldn't get any better than this, could it? Yes it could. A fucking hat trick and the third goal was the best of the lot. An opposition player tried to dink it over me on his own D, it hit my chest bounced down on the ground and I hit it with my right foot. The ball ended up more floating than arrowing into the top corner. So what if their keeper resembled [Giant Haystacks](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martin_Ruane) with no hair, I still scored three goals.

You can imagine the team's hopes were high for our first competitive game of the season against the worst team in the league, NFK Hinckley. They had lost 10-3 and 6-0 in their first two games of the season. About a minute into the game, I could see why they had been thrashed twice already. They were terrible and I mean terrible, which makes it even more soul destroying losing 4-0 to them. It was my worst experience on a football pitch. I didn't personally play too badly, but as soon as we went a goal down people started shouting at each other and it descended into anarchy. We ended up unable to play decent football and ended up beating ourselves with our poor attitude. What's even more frustrating is that we beat better teams in preseason. One of our players refused to be subbed off and when he eventually left the field he said he would never play for us again. In the changing room after the game I sat there in disbelief, we had never got on each others backs before. I hope our next game is a better experience, I don't care about the result.

On a different note, the NFL season has started and Rivers is looking back to his best. He even rushed for 18 yards against the Texans, in one play.
