---
title: "Referee!"
date: "2013-02-28"
categories: 
  - "football"
tags: 
  - "red-card"
coverImage: "footballboots.jpg"
---

I haven't been able to shake a cold since Monday and during the game I was really lethargic and struggled to get around. The pitch was also a mud bath which didn't help, very sticky and I was unable to close down quickly. My performance can be summed up by my second touch. My first touch was recieving the ball from the kickoff which I played out to the leftback, I moved for the return and tried to play it to the centreback first time. I passed it straight to their striker, they didn't score from it but it knocked my confidence. We started badly and were soon two goals down. We weren't playing particularly well and and having Holty hungover didn't help much. Their keeper who looked a bit like [Neville Southall](http://images.supersport.com/2011/Neville-Southall-110912-HandlesBall-R300.jpg) pulled off a some good saves from the few chances that we created. I was partly to blame for their third goal. We had a throw in by their box and the ball was thrown to me. I was under pressure and I lost my composure and couldn't bring a simple ball under control. The ball fell to the opposition player who was putting me under pressure and he booted it up field. Holty had time to bring the ball down but he headed it straight to one of their midfielders who played in someone to score. Incidentally Holty was subbed for Dickens at halftime and when I looked over at him on the sidelines he was on all fours retching.

I have played a lot of Saturday and Sunday football and have only ever seen one yellow card. I have seen some [horror tackles](https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=endscreen&NR=1&v=c_D8-3OKyM0) which barely earn a ticking off from the ref. So I was surprised when my midfield partner got a yellow card for going through the back of someone, it wasn't even a nasty challenge. He was sent off about ten minutes later when the ref didn't give a backpass and so he swore at him. I was shocked on two levels. Firstly that he had been sent off for swearing at the ref. Swearing at the ref is par for the course and I have never seen anyone booked for it at this level. I will say now that I don't usually swear at the ref but I will 'chat' to him about decisions he's made. However some of the abuse that you hear them take is horrendous. 'Who would be a ref?' and it's true, where else is someone subject to such abuse? It's part of the culture of the game, although it bothers me when I see professionals swearing at the ref. I applauded this incident when I saw it and hopefully it will help to change the culture in football. Yet I am shocked when one of my teammates is sent off for doing the same. I definitely have two different standards and it is so ingrained into how I view football at the level I play. The feel of football would change, for the better in my opinion if when you shouted at referees you were booked. The argument against it is that it's an emotional game and you have to allow players and managers to express themselves. However their behaviour has long since passed what is acceptable. On field rugby behaviour is often held up as the antithesis of football. In rugby players don't chat back to the ref, because if they do they are penalised and the ref will even reverse his decisions. If you abuse the ref you face a ban, look what happened to [Sergio Parisse](http://www.theguardian.com/sport/2013/feb/20/italy-sergio-parisse-six-nations). All this to say you would hope that football would pass laws to stop abuse towards referees and players who broke those rules would receive big bans.

Three nil down at halftime and only ten men inspired us to have an incredible second half. We scored two and their goalie was in even better form than the first half. I had two good chances to get rid of my beard, first chance was a one on one and I still don't know how the goalie got down to save it. The second chance was a free header from a corner that I headed straight at the keeper. I still don't know how I haven't scored, I am getting very desperate and my beard is looking quite ridiculous. It ended 4-2 and we came off the pitch feeling terrible because we felt like we should have got something out of the game. Next week we may start with only ten players.
