---
title: "The Beard Remains"
date: "2013-02-16"
categories: 
  - "football"
coverImage: "2013-01-25-15.08.30.jpg"
---

I have played nine times for Parkend and we haven't won a game, the only game we did win in that period was when I was out of town for the weekend. I had started to believe that I was a bad omen for the team and that this silly idea of not shaving until I scored was somehow jinxing us. So it was with slight apprehension that I looked forward to our game against County Hall. With the snow and having been knocked out of the cup we've not had a game since the 12th of January. I have been going on a few runs on my lunch breaks with a work colleague to keep fit. Having worked so hard to get my match fitness up it would be unbearable to lose it. In that time I haven't kicked a ball or touched a razor, for which my wife has decided to voice her distaste of the beard a little more forcefully. Even though it is a nuisance and lends me a certain wayfaring look I am chuffed with how it has turned out, although now my moustache is getting into my mouth when I eat. Food is ending up in my beard and before I next eat soup I must invest in one of [these,](http://gizmodo.com/5980512/this-victorian-mustache-spoon-is-your-nose-neighbors-best-friend) unless I score of course.

I woke up this morning and it was snowing and I imagined myself playing with a white ball on a snow covered field and not being able to see the ball. However the snow never settled and soon stopped. I had my usual breakfast before football of pasta and as many cups of waters as I can handle. The rest of the morning was spent weeing and guzzling more water. My final cup of water is always the same, I get an empty glass and put in two teaspoons of salt and a couple of tablespoons of sugar add a small amount of boiling water and dissolve the salt and sugar. I fill the rest of the cup up with cold water and then force myself to drink it and it seems to stop me from getting cramp. I am not sure that is the reason for not getting cramp but I have stuck to it, my own little superstition but not as strange as some.

The car wouldn't start so I had to cycle to the game. I have lost my gloves so my hands were freezing, I had to take turns putting one in a pocket as the other one was on the handlebars. I made it with only minor frostbite. I think the worse thing about football when it is cold is leaving the changing room. It hurts to kick a ball and shivers rack my body not to mention my hands were still like popsicles. Normally within about five minutes of running around I have warmed up and don't notice the cold. Razor Ruddock or Tony as he is commonly known, gave the team talk telling us to keep it simple and then went on to tell us all the different ways to keep it simple. 'Play it short, play it back, play it sideways, lay it off, backheel it...' at which point we all started to laugh. 'You get the point, keep it simple!' Another classic team talk!

My beard has brought about a lot of piss taking from those in the team. Apart from the obvious being unable to score I was told I looked like Jesus fishing when I was helping to put up the nets.

We were playing against County Hall who have 18 points, twice as many as us and a positive goal difference. They beat Beaumont Town who beat us 7-1 and they have had close games against the better teams and have lost against the poorer teams. So this was going to be close. They started the game well and passed it around nicely, they had a three man midfield which meant they had an extra man to pass it to, so it was hard to close them down. Fortunately they didn't have a lot going forward so they were unable to use the extra man to their advantage. We took the lead when Dubsy, our chain smoking striker, hit a weak shot on the edge of the box that their goalie watched roll slowly past him and nestle into the corner of the net. We were all taken by surprise that it had gone in, we were winning. Our confidence as a team really grew and we played the best football we have played all season, we were passing it well and they didn't have a sniff of our goal. We managed to get another one before halftime and went in 2-0 up. I was enjoying the game which is not something I can say about all the games I have played. My fitness wasn't stopping me from getting up and down and I felt like I was able to cover so much ground. They scored nearly straight after the break, Heath our keeper later said that he was so cold he could barely move, which would sum up why the ball went past him even though it was easily savable. On days this cold I am glad not to be a keeper, no matter how many layers you have on you just freeze. Needless to say when the final whistle was blown, Heath was the first to run for the changing rooms. The usual feelings of anxiety hit me when they scored and I thought to myself 'oh no here we go again.' This time it was different though, they put a bit of pressure on us but we were holding our own and were able to keep on passing when we had possession, not only that we scored a third. It came from a corner, the defence was still setting up I looked at our corner taker and motioned to empty space at the near post and made a run, he whipped the ball in but it was beyond me. However Dubsy had made a run to the near post too and he headed in his second unchallenged. Two goal cushion restored, although it didn't last very long, a bit of faffing at the back and they took advantage and pegged us back to one. The same anxious feelings returned but this time I had a little more confidence in the team. Throughout the game everytime I had the ball near the goal and didn't shoot there were comments about the beard. My chance to finally rid myself of the beard came from a freekick. It was about 25 yards out near the left touchline, we all piled into the box waiting for the cross. I was nowhere near the ball when it came in and a few people went up for it. The ball rebounded to me about 10 yards out I didn't have time to take a touch as the defence were charging me like a herd of wildebeest. I hit it sweetly with my right foot hoping it would find a way through the herd and to my surprise it did, only to hit the goalie's leg and be cleared to safety. The goalie didn't know a thing about it, the beard won again. I don't care now if the goal I score is like [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fkj5ffbA7DM) I will celebrate with the same vigour.

As we were trying to hold onto the lead when we didn't have possession Dubsy marked their extra man in midfield. They managed to get it back to three all when our goalie dropped a corner at one of their players feet. It was a howler from the Heath, but then again he probably couldn't feel his arms let alone his hands. We won it when our little left winger skipped into the box and put the ball past the onrushing keeper. 4-3 and I had won my first game with Park End. We played the better football and deserved to win which gives us some confidence coming into the game with Glen Villa on the weekend. It should be a good one as they are on the same points as us and who knows maybe I will score. Although there will be some sadness at losing the beard, it has become a part of my identity.
