---
title: "Why I Don't Want Leicester To Win The League"
date: "2016-03-03"
categories: 
  - "football"
tags: 
  - "champions"
  - "leicester-city"
  - "tottenham-hotspurs"
coverImage: "king-richard-iii.jpg"
---

I know it is an unpopular view and I sound like a jealous Spurs fan, but I really hope Leicester don't win the league. Why you may ask? How can you go against a such a fairy tale team? The first team to be bottom at Christmas one year and top the the next. The first player to score in eleven Premier League games in a row, who four years ago was playing against Tamworth in the Conference. The unknown Algerian who was plucked from the French Second Division for a measly £400,000 and is on course for the PFA Player of the Year Award. Another unknown player hand picked from the French leagues' who has gone on to be a defensive midfield revelation. The right back who captains and has nearly eighty caps for their country and was picked up on a free transfer. A Japanese international who runs himself into the ground every game and yet has technique and skill to unpick a defence. Two journeymen central defenders and a supporting cast of relative unknowns who what they lack in ability make up for with passion and a never say die attitude. The manager whose career seemed over when he was sacked by Greece after a home defeat to the Faroe Islands and who many thought would be a terrible appointment, myself included.

If Spurs don't win the league then I can say in all honesty I would rather Arsenal win it instead.

But why?

There are two parts to that question. Firstly Spurs haven't won anything since that Jonathan Woodgate [rebound header](https://youtu.be/uSwF0XA3MTY?t=129) in 2008. We haven't got close to winning the league since I started following Spurs in the early 90s, in that time we have seen Arsenal become one of the better teams in Europe whilst we have been frustratingly second rate. In recent seasons there has been a growing expectation that we might get it together and push on and challenge for a place in the top four perhaps even the title. However every season brings disappointment as our squad of talented individuals don't have the character to overcome the challenges of falling behind in games. There have been glimmers of hope, we beat Man Utd 3-2 on the 29th of September 2012 only 4151 days since the previous time we beat them in the league. We beat Arsenal in 2010 for the first time this millennium and have gone on to beat them 4 more times since then. When we beat Chelsea last year on New Year's day 5-3 it felt like we were now able to compete against the top teams, maybe we were maturing and growing a spine. There has been definite growth over the past five years and Pochettino has brought about a belief in the team this year and it shows as they have picked up the most points from losing positions this year. So for the first time in my life Spurs are genuine title contenders, I still think Man City will win the league, I have been conditioned to expect Spurs to lose in feeble ways and I am waiting for it to happen this season. I can't bring myself to celebrate our success on the pitch as I'm expecting it to end everytime they step onto it. This brings me onto the second point why I don't want Leicester to win the league as they have come from nowhere, it almost feels as if they don't deserve to be in this position. Which of course is not true as the league table this far into the season doesn't lie. As a Spurs fan it seems so unfair, we have had years of never being able to put together a genuine title bid and here are Leicester who are doing it and they are loving every minute of it. Living in Leicester makes it hard, sitting next to a season ticket holder is no fun. Understandably he is extremely excited about his team but a haughtiness has crept in and it is starting to grate. Suddenly Leicester are this special team and they have a right to be at the top of the table. The truth is they have played incredibly well and they deserve to be at the top of the table but they aren't anymore special than any other team in the league. I didn't like Leicester when O'Neill was their manager and despite living in Leicester I have never felt any affinity towards the club. I don't think I could bear to live here if they do win the league, so for the sake of my sanity and saving the world from smug Leicester fans can someone else please win the the league instead.
