---
title: "Winning and Books"
date: "2016-02-25"
categories: 
  - "football"
tags: 
  - "a-brief-history-of-seven-killings"
  - "books"
  - "goal"
  - "lansdown-hill"
  - "saturday-football"
  - "trump"
  - "windy"
coverImage: "IMG_3142-e1456349272797.jpg"
---

Near the spot of the Civil War Battle of Lansdown Hill is where I first played men's football. The Sunday morning drive up Lansdown Lane felt like I was going up into the clouds. The exposed playing fields are perched above the city and the wind howls across them and the aptly named Freezing Hill Lane is less than a mile away. The changing rooms although cold gave solace from the wind and rain, the smell of deep heat and musty football boots hung in the air. Although unpleasant the smell after the game of Brut Aquatonic and Lynx deodorants were far worse. The team I played for struggled every week much like Park End and I would run my socks off harrying players who always had a pass on and would be knackered by half-time, most weeks it felt like we were playing against 12 men. Seeing the opposition players smoking during the break and then being able to run more than me was extremely disheartening. At the time I thought it was because they were better footballers than me, which they probably were but it was also because they had the lion's share of possession and I didn't know then how much of a difference having the ball made. It put me off playing football for over a decade, I only came back to it by chance when a friend invited me to play for Park End.

Our match this week reminded me of those days playing football in Bath as it took place on an exposed field at the top of a hill with a blustery wind blowing from behind one goal. Craig went for a pee and didn't shelter himself properly and came back with sprinkles of piss all over his shorts. The home team were so disorganised, we were meant to kick-off at two but there was no sign of them at five to. When they eventually turned up we found out the reason they were late was because they hadn't been able to find the nets. It was a joke and we didn't kick-off until ten past two which meant we ended up playing two forty minute halves. I won the toss and chose to play against the wind for the first half and thought it was a bad idea when for the first five minutes when we barely got more than thirty metres from our goal. It was knackering trying to keep our shape and we went behind after fifteen minutes and I expected the floodgates to open. However we improved after we conceded and kept the ball on the ground and managed to carve open a few good openings. Alex hit the post twice and Jack missed a really good chance from about ten yards just before half-time.

Towards the end of the half they began to get on each other's backs because they kept on giving the ball away cheaply and when the half-time whistle went we were almost celebrating only being a goal down. From the re-start I hit a long ball towards their left back which our right winger ran onto, he took a shot which the keeper saved. Their keeper then tried to kick the ball into the space behind our right winger and because of the wind it went straight to our right winger who shot wide. From that moment their heads dropped, they were already pissed off with each other and now they were in outright rebellion. Their best player started to moan at his team-mates and they were still winning. Without the ball they were terrible, they didn't track runners and their three central midfielders were only interested in going forward.

Alex scored the equaliser with a neat finish across the goalie after beating their right back and running into the box. I scored my first goal of the season from a corner, it was swung in by Alex, miscontrolled by Dee and I hit with my left foot from just outside the six yard box. I was surprised with how well I connected with it and even more surprised when I saw the net move. They had a few opportunities to get in behind us but the wind and some good defending thwarted them, it was mainly the wind to be honest. Callum scored our third and the game was over as a contest after that. Although there was still time for a bit of humour, Stu was through on goal he had been put through from about forty yards out and was running as fast as he could, no defender was within 5 yards of him when he stumbled and fell over in a muddy patch. The keeper gladly snaffeld the loose ball and Heath shouted out 'Who shot him?'

It was good to finally get a win after four defeats in a row and as we play them again this Saturday we may get two wins on the bounce, creeping up the form table if not the [table proper.](http://full-time.thefa.com/Table.do?selectedSeason=827511533&selectedDivision=140731462&standingsTableDay=21&standingsTableMonth=1&standingsTableYear=2016)

##### Books

I thought I would mention a few books I've read recently as I've really enjoyed them. First I read [Wolf Hall](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6101138-wolf-hall) which took me a little while to get into and I was a little confused by it until I realised it was written from Thomas Cromwell's point of view. Once I got about halfway through I couldn't put it down, which is often the case with books. I wonder if there is a reason for this? Is it because a book has a finite amount of pages and as you approach the end of it you rush to reach the climax of the story. I just finished [A Brief History of Seven Killings](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20893314-a-brief-history-of-seven-killings?ac=1&from_search=1&from_nav=true) which again is written from a first person perspective, the Jamaican Patois took me awhile to get my head around and I found myself reading sentences over and over to work out their meaning. It is a shockingly brutal book and the characters leap off the page and slap you in the face. For no reason in particular here is a list of some of my favourite words in Jamaican: fuckery, raas, raascloth, hataclaps, deh(which incidentally was how my eldest son would communicate, he would point at something and say 'deh') and duppy. I am almost finished with [Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4806.Longitude?ac=1&from_search=1&from_nav=true) the title is a bit of a mouthful, but don't be put off by that. It is a simple account of John Harrison who invented a clock to keep time on ships allowing sailors to accurately measure their longitude. It is a fascinating account of a man who wasn't formally educated yet produced the most accurate clocks of his time, it opened my eyes to a problem I never knew existed.

On a completely different note it is amazing to see how well Trump is performing(he is a performer) to be the GOP nominee. It's crazy to me that people are voting for him, his demagogue policies and straight talking obviously ring true with a lot of Republicans. But even so I can't imagine him as president, having said that no-one took him seriously two months ago and look who's [smug](http://i3.mirror.co.uk/incoming/article6448325.ece/ALTERNATES/s615/Donald-Trump.jpg) now?
