---
title: "You Cannot Beat An English Summer"
date: "2013-07-21"
categories: 
  - "englishness"
---

It is part of being English to grumble about the weather. To be fair we have had very wet summers in recent years and last year was the wettest since records began. It isn't really that surprising to hear a groaning coming from this small island. I used to work in a coffee shop and talking about the elements was my default conversation starter. I would pipe up 'Weather's a bit miserable today' or something to that affect and then the customer would give a quick rundown on the weather and how it was going to ruin their weekend/garden/holiday etc. I must have had a hundred conversations similar to this. What people may not realise is that we English not only complain when the weather is bad, we also complain when the weather is good. It will be a glorious summer day and someone will come into work and say 'It's too hot outside, I don't like it I wish it would cool down.' No joke. I personally can't get my head around it. I think English summers days are some of the best this planet has to offer. At school I couldn't wait for the summer term to begin, everyone in the school seemed to perk up. The grass became a rich green, teachers were as much focused on the outdoors as us fidgety students, hours of playing cricket and lazing outside. There is nothing quite like being in the sun for hours and then sitting in the cool shade of an oak tree and having a snooze. Dozing off to the sounds of birds singing and the heavenly sound of willow hitting leather. I like to think of myself as Ferdinand the Bull, refusing to be drawn into the fickle and empty pursuits of the fellow herd, instead pondering deep philosophical matters. In truth I allow my dozing mind to drift wherever it wishes, my thoughts warm and hazy due to the soporific surroundings.
